foreign
welcome to the Stellar open protocol
discussion in these meetings we
discuss core advancement proposals aka
caps these are technical specs that
suggest changes to the Stellar protocol
necessary to allow that protocol to
continue to evolve to meet ecosystem
needs
we live stream these meetings so that
anyone who is interested can follow
along i do want to note it's a technical
along I do want to note it's a technical
discussion so if you're watching you
should take a look at the cap we're
planning to discuss which is linked to
in the show description it's cap 38.
also we do keep an eye on the discussion
box and your comments there they do help
inform our decisions that said
today's discussion focuses on reviewing
final changes to a cap that's already
been approved and our goal is to
acknowledge and validate those exchanges
so you know we'll again pay attention to
that discussion box and if relevant
questions come in we may try to
incorporate them but we do have this
very specific goal
as i said today's discussion focuses on
as I said today's discussion focuses on
a single cap cap 38 and this meeting is
basically the end of its life cycle that
life cycle started with the discussion
on the Stellar dev mailing list and
there's a link to that mailing list in
the event description for anyone
interested in joining and participating
in future discussions
after that discussion the cap was
drafted and then iterated on based on
feedback and suggestions that came in
and once it's settled it was approved by
the cap committee entered into a
one-week final comment period and then
it got through that period it was
implemented in a major Stellar core
release
it is now officially part of protocol
18.
now there's still a final step before
that protocol hits the network which is
that validators have to vote to upgrade
the network to protocol 18 and that vote
is currently scheduled for november 3rd
before that day anyone and everyone who
builds on Stellar needs to install new
versions of any Stellar related software
they rely on including Stellar core
horizon also including all the Stellar
sdks there are breaking changes in
protocol 18. if you aren't running
up-to-date software with the network
upgrades you will run into trouble so if
you're watching this you haven't already
please make sure to update all your
Stellar related software content okay
enough preamble today we're returning
to cap 38 automated market makers it
introduces a powerful new feature that
has the potential to really transform
the network which is the ability to
create automated market makers or amfs
amms allow users to create deposits into
liquidity pools they also allow buyers
and sellers to trade against those pools
they use in the underlying formula to
value two assets relative to one another
when trades execute and change the
amount of each asset in the pool the
relative prices shift based on a formula
it all happens automatically so in the
case of cap 38 trading against a
liquidity goal is done using existing
path payment operations which is pretty
neat because it automatically gives
applications built on Stellar access to
this new source of liquidity
it also means that liquidity pools
benefit from real-world cross-border
payments and Stellar is the first layer
one blockchain to incorporate a m
functionality at the protocol level and
the first to combine it in this way with
cross-border payments
obviously we're super excited to see
what this feature can do to boost
overall network liquidity
that said back to the technical
discussion as i mentioned at this point
discussion as I mentioned at this point
cap38 has already been approved and
implemented but during implementation
there's always a bit of tweaking that
needs to happen and the goal today is to
take a look at the tweets that happen
during
cat 38's implementation and verify that
the final adjustments are safe and sound
that they make sense so this is the post
implementation validation phase and
hopefully the final phase for cap 38
and so what we're going to do
is we're going to look through the
changes that have happened
in this post
implementation
review
so before we do that i i I'm just
so before we do that I I'm just
gonna walk through them one by one but
before we do that does anyone have any
questions
we're good
okay
so
here we go
the agenda is to walk through the xtr
changes and we're going to do it in
approximate chronological order so the
first change removed liquidity pool id
from union in liquidity pool entry
and so i guess my question is does
and so I guess my question is does
anyone have any questions about this
does this change make sense
are there any concerns
so when we did this i think siddharth
so when we did this I think siddharth
might have made this change yes
siddharth made this change but
sir do you want to talk about or do you
want me to
yeah i can talk about it so the
yeah I can talk about it so the
reasoning for this is that the
in the original capital
in the original capital liquidity pool
id was under a union
but the liquidity the
electric key didn't have the liquidity
pool id under a union so
you know which means that every type of
liquidity pool entry would need that
that id
so you might as well just take it to the
the level above that
instead of specifying it for each new
union we specify in the future so
that was the reason for this
and the general assumption here is like
probably we're going to keep referencing
things by hash anyway there's no reason
to think that we would change the
liquidity pool id
so we might change our hash function
right if if we decide to move to ketchup
from like shot 256 or something
yeah does this make that harder or is it
just going to be a pain anyway
i think it would be pain no matter what
I think it would be pain no matter what
because we do a lot of hashing in a
lot of places probably it would be
sufficiently disruptive that we would
end up introducing new ledger keys
anyway for that so
that's my intuition at least
i see nico nodding so i think he
I see nico nodding so I think he
probably agrees with that
okay i think we're fine then if nobody
okay I think we're fine then if nobody
objects i mean
objects I mean
i don't expect any of these changes to
I don't expect any of these changes to
be really objectionable
i just think this is kind of one of
I just think this is kind of one of
those
better safe than sorry type of things
that makes sense okay
second change use clean adam and manage
offer success results
this one was a change that i made the
this one was a change that I made the
the main gap here was that like when i
originally
when i originally drew up the cap
when I originally drew up the cap
i had kind of assumed like oh we
I had kind of assumed like oh we
should make the minimum changes that we
would have to make to do this
it would be less annoying for downstream
systems and stuff like that but then
there were two realizations the first
realization was well then downstream
systems need to know how to handle both
kinds of claim atoms independently
anyway so they will end up with code
duplication
and they'll need to know which ones to
expect in different scenarios
and we'll have to maintain both in
Stellar core so it's like all the bad
and none of the good
the only catch was that it was like
slightly breaking for people who
actually parse xdr results
so
who would that be
my so when i
that's a good question justin
when i wrote this i thought the answer
when I wrote this I thought the answer
was like approximately no one i thought
was like approximately no one I thought
that it was basically just like horizon
and a few other like very specifically
written downstream tools like like
Stellar expert
that were doing things like that
but it actually turns out that a lot of
the sdks actually had this kind of
this kind of like result parsing code
for trading operations rolled into them
i don't interact with the sdks that much
I don't interact with the sdks that much
so i i wasn't aware of that
so I wasn't aware of that
perhaps i would have changed the
perhaps I would have changed the
calculus a little bit on this but having
already done the work i think it doesn't
already done the work I think it doesn't
but at this point i'd my expectation is
basically anybody who's using one of
those sdks and interacts with like
trading operations probably needs to
update prior to the release
or prior to the vote excuse me
it needs so the sdk itself can handle
the xdr person and those people will
need to upgrade their sdk exactly and
that will generally solve the problem
for people that don't have some custom
xdr parser which it seems like it's not
a ton of downstream systems since most
people rely on sdks
this sounds like a good precedent to set
that like if you're parsing xdr keep up
with protocol
and the whole point of xcr is it's not
hard to do the upgrade but yeah
just need to update your xcr files
i like that precedent
I like that precedent
it's official
it's the official press don't know
okay
any other questions about that change
looks like the next two are added new
results to revoke sponsorship mail forms
and changed validation results for
revoke sponsorship to all be malformed
what's this
you understand or should i you made one
you understand or should I you made one
of the changes i made the other
of the changes I made the other
you can go ahead okay
so basically
this this change is a bit of a
throwback actually
to
to i guess that was protocol 15 or 14
to I guess that was protocol 15 or 14
when there was a a side issue with the
release and we had to make some
retroactive changes and that became
protocol 15.
and when we did that we didn't want
to change the xdr
because
that would have required us to basically
force everybody to update even more than
they had to like all their clients and
everything like that
we elected not to do that and so
basically there were validation results
for revoked sponsorship that didn't
return malformed which is like a
violation of our convention even though
it doesn't matter in the grand scheme of
things
so these two changes one adds the
malformed thing that was missing
and the second one just retroactively
applies it to all things that were not
correct as a protocol 15.
should have
zero impact basically
okay any anyone have any thoughts
questions
all right the next one is changed
to m32t in liquidity pool use count
he's taken that john said sit down
yeah i can take this this is this is
yeah I can take this this is this is
following
our convention of using
signed ins and the xdr and we like
this
this number will never get
close to you when like even in 32 max so
like
this just made sense
david you're muted if you're trying to
talk
why it's not inconceivable to have
two billion trust lines
and so it makes me pretty
nervous that you changed signed unsigned
but none of the like none of the actual
range checks seem to have changed
so the reason
this is so an account can have a trust
line right but when it when it wants to
deposit into a pool it has to create
you know a pool share trust line
so you can't have more than
i don't know I'm not sure what the exact
I don't know I'm not sure what the exact
number is but you can't have more than a
couple hundred full share trust lines
right
why not you can have
just do it you can subscribe
if you have a billion accounts that are
or if you have three billion accounts
that all own shares in the same pool
wouldn't you that will have its own
trust lines
right
this is on the trust lines like the pool
share trust lines not on the pool itself
so it's like a per account counter
yeah sorry okay maybe say what this
what is a count what is the use of a
truss line what does this thing actually
count
so this is making so we have this
requirement where you can't delete
what is an an asset trust line
until the pool share trust line is
deleted
right and this this enforces that
sorry sorry totally makes sense yes this
change is innocuous
yeah completely misunderstood sorry
about that
no problem i feel like that's what we're
no problem I feel like that's what we're
here for it's just like make sure that
these things are clear and that there's
not some
something that we're overlooking
okay the next one is added new liquidity
pool deposit
result which is the result is line full
this was just a small bug in the xdr
the the pseudo code already
considered the case where
you could get line full upon deposit
which let me just look at this for
one second to make sure I'm about to say
the right thing
oh sorry this is
yes mindful
it was already possible that you would
have like the maximum number of pool
shares that you could hold relative to
your limit
and then when you deposit
you
wait
let me read this for once yes this is
deposit
sorry about that little confusion yes
you already have the maximum number
of of pool shares that you're willing
to hold you deposit you can't hold
the pool shares that you would have
received until you get mine full it was
already handled in the pseudocode
missing from the xdr so just a
correction
again that just seems to
implement expected behavior as far as i
can tell
is there i mean well i think this is a
is there I mean well I think this is a
more general question i feel like at
more general question I feel like at
some point we may want to
revise what the use of the
limit is on trust lines
let's not go down that rabbit hole
i totally agree with you on both
I totally agree with you on both
sentiments that we probably need to talk
about that and also that we probably
don't want to talk about it right now
nico and i have been talking about it a
nico and I have been talking about it a
bit actually and it it turns out that
there's some tricky tricky details when
you try to change how this works
plus line limits
we'll get back to that
next make liquidity pool deposit and
withdraw
semantic match the semantics match
offers
yeah this was a
this was just like a
so just a design flaw in the original
thing you know our goal has been to make
to make
you know liquidity pools work
exactly analogous to offers in as many
ways as possible
and this was just a gap there where
basically like
we were ignoring the fact that there's
asymmetry and awe semantics for
for offers where you can
delete even if you're not fully
authorized but you can't create when you
are fully when you're not fully
authorized
but for
liquidity pools we were just saying like
if you're not fully authorized you can't
do anything
and that doesn't quite make sense
so
so what's the new behavior
what's it art do you want to explain
yeah so i believe that the
yeah so I believe that the
so
one like the i think the biggest
one like the I think the biggest
change that you can withdraw if you're
in the
authorized to maintain liability state
right so you can it's the same thing as
pulling offers right
and
if I'm not sure if this is specified
here but if you're in the unauthorized
state
your pool shares are redeemed
automatically
right so you can't be in a unauthorized
state with pool shares and you're
allowed to pull pool shares if you're in
the off maintained liability state
and you can't but you can't deposit
which is i think was the old behavior as
which is I think was the old behavior as
well you can't deposit if you're not
authorized
so just to check my understanding this
means that for example
if i am an
if I am an
issuer
of an author required asset and i don't
of an author required asset and I don't
want there to be an asset between like
my mark my market between my asset and
say asset x i could basically revoke
say asset x I could basically revoke
authorization from everyone who's
contributed to the liquidity pool and
that would just automatically kill the
liquidity pool is that right
okay
yeah
and that's the intention that's the
intended behavior
great next is added new results to allow
trust and set trustline flags
which is low reserve and clarify what
happens with zero amount
yeah one sec
let's see
sorry i need to take a look at this
sorry I need to take a look at this
change
so i believe that this change is
so I believe that this change is
specifying
so originally in the in the original
invitation we assumed that the revoke
was guaranteed to work
for well when you were like the
redeemed from the pollution trust line
is guaranteed to work
when you revoke off but there are
some
cases where this isn't true
specifically
if
the account that needs to sponsor the
claimable balance is in itself being is
this in itself is in a sponsorship
sandwich sandwich we can't guarantee the
state of the sponsor
so it's possible to hit the low reserve
or too many sponsoring
error codes so we this is adding that
and is there there might be a second
change here
yeah and the other change is that
it's you you're not always it's always
guaranteed that a claimable bouncer will
be created on revoke for example if the
the claimant will be the issuer or if
the amount being withdrawn is zero for
that asset so this just specifies
those those cases
any questions
I'm actually confused i didn't
I'm actually confused I didn't
understand
what this does how do how do claimable
balances come into play here
so when
when
you revoke
on a trust line and that trust line
had had deposited into a liquidity pool
right
the way this works is
those pool shares will be withdrawn
it will be redeemed automatically
and then it's but we can't just we
can't guarantee like originally we
wanted to send it back to the the trust
line right
but we can't always do that because you
know the trust line might be full
so the solution here is just create a
claimable balance for that
for that asset and then the owner of
that trust line can come in and claim it
whenever they want to
and the reserve for the claimable
balance comes from the previous
trust line for the
pool shares exactly yeah
but so yeah
it seems like a little bit of a foot gun
though because now
this is like a this is like a case
that's like not going to happen very
often and when it does happen like
probably a lot of wallets and other
software is like not going to do the
right thing or it's just you're not
going to notice it
are you talking about
like managing claimable balances
well sorry this is a situation where
usually you just get the funds back and
and like you know in weird edge cases
you get a claimable balance instead
sorry i i wasn't clear we create camel
sorry I wasn't clear we create camel
bounce every time we don't even attempt
to send it back
oh i see okay yeah yeah that was the
oh I see okay yeah yeah that was the
game
okay so that's actually good so it's
uniform behavior it's a little bit more
complicated than just refunding it
but it at least it doesn't have this
edge case
yeah
and we acknowledge that this is like
really really quirky
like siddharth and i spent many many
like siddharth and I spent many many
hours on the phone trying to figure out
if there was a way to not do this
and it turns out that basically the crux
of the issue here is like you can do you
can avoid this issue when you have
offers involved because offers have
fixed liabilities and they never grow
or they only grow upon like a manage
offer operation that you can control but
here like imagine i deposit into a
here like imagine I deposit into a
liquidity pool
somebody immediately trades it into some
crazy price and now you can't withdraw
so it's very easy to get into like a
unwithdrawable state so it would have
been great if we knew how to avoid this
but it is all we could do
is this gonna be mysterious to
developers that they're getting these
claimable balances instead of
direct transfers of funds
i would think it will be kind of
I would think it will be kind of
mysterious
i think there could be i mean
I think there could be I mean
if we were starting from scratch i feel
if we were starting from scratch I feel
like a better design would be to say you
can't have more than like you know two
to the 63 of any asset and there's no
there's the limits are either there's
only
a trust line or like we get rid of
limits on trust lines and whatever but i
mean like given where we're starting
like maybe this is reasonable
probably the least bad like situation
a lot of weird quirky things it turns
out could have been avoided with asset
issuance limits like david was saying
it could have helped in a whole bunch
of different avenues actually
but that's not the world we reside in
but maybe in the future it will be
so and by the way i just did a
so and by the way I just did a
looked at the ledger i think yesterday
looked at the ledger I think yesterday
and it was like thousands of accounts at
this point have
some whether
you have like more than in 64
max
it's actually a thing that people do now
it was it was in the tens the last
time i checked which i think was in
time I checked which I think was in
march or april when we were issuing
accounts
tons of assets basically
and now it's thousands you're saying
yeah
hug
maybe we should say that there's there
should be a flag on the asset saying
whether you can
flag an asset saying you can't create
more than two to the 63 of them and then
you get access to all these good
features only when that flag is set or
something but anyway we are where we are
so
I'm just wondering if there's this when
i look at this I'm like oh shoot is
I look at this I'm like oh shoot is
there some education does this imply
that there's some sort of education
clarification outreach that needs to
happen so that people understand this
quirk
i mean one thing we could do is we like
I mean one thing we could do is we like
this is not really a protocol discussion
but i agree that like education is a
but I agree that like education is a
part of what we do and so it's it's not
necessarily something we should ignore
it would not be unreasonable to create
like a tiny javascript program or python
program or whatever uses one of the
sdks and basically what it does is it
goes it connects to the the test net
you set you pointed at a wallet and
basically it like goes through the steps
of
making this happen
and basically we can give it to wallet
developers as a tool it's like hey like
this is we want to make sure you handle
this is something that can happen
like run this program if your wallet
works you're good to go if it doesn't
you have a bug the other thing i'll
say is that like this like the claimable
balances you receive will look exactly
like claimable balances you would
receive in any other setting so wallets
that handle that
will probably do the right thing even if
they might not reveal it to users in the
most
like sensible way
yeah i guess like the the the
yeah I guess like the the the
question here is more like yeah what's
the level of support of for claimable
balances in the ecosystem today i think
balances in the ecosystem today I think
it's much better than
like even like two months ago
but i don't know where we are yeah i
but I don't know where we are yeah i
feel like a few months ago there was
zero support and now there's increasing
support because people understand what
claimable balances are
i mean unlike this time right where
I mean unlike this time right where
we're spending time with an adoption
plan that was no
we didn't really have a clear
sort of
and this is not related to this
discussion earlier to this group but i
was just saying like we didn't have a
clear adoption plan for claimable
balances so it took a little longer for
people to catch on
but
you know maybe maybe now
claimable balance support gets folded
into the education about liquidity pools
given that this is a fact
okay well that's very helpful for me
i know it's not strictly protocol
I know it's not strictly protocol
discussion but thank you
and i believe we're at we are where we
and I believe we're at we are where we
landed at this is what it is this is the
world we live in this is okay
all right then
next added missing validation conditions
for liquidity pool deposit
this was a another bug fix but a
pretty a pretty bad bug fix or pretty
bad bug
basically would have been possible to
do things like
i mean submit very nonsensical
I mean submit very nonsensical
i guess very nonsensical
I guess very nonsensical
operations where you could just say like
hey like you know my min price is bigger
than my max price so it's impossible to
succeed
but you would still actually go
through you'd make it through validation
you'd actually get to a bot time you'd
actually do some of the apply stuff only
to find out quite through the way of the
work
that you would fail
unconditionally
so
just a bug fix that just makes things
sane
great
fixed incorrect error specification for
path payments
oh yeah i remember this one
oh yeah I remember this one
probably though i would not be surprised
probably though I would not be surprised
if people have things to say about this
one
just because it is
it was very hard to express
what actually happens
the original draft of this that we
accepted on like june
23rd or something like that
basically what it said is like if you
make a path payment
and
it fails because of stuff happening in
the liquidity pools you would get the
exact same result as if the liquidity
pools had never existed at all
but this is like
it doesn't take a lot of thinking to
think like this is actually probably not
possible
because for example like what if
like imagine you know the original like
the original draft of the original
language i should say it's like in the
language I should say it's like in the
first hop you know you're going from a
to b and you have both a liquidity pool
and an order book and you can do it
through either path
but then on the second half
it fails because of something to do with
the
liquidity pools
and then it's like well actually if i in
and then it's like well actually if I in
the first path if i had actually take or
the first path if I had actually take or
sorry in the first hop if i had taken
sorry in the first hop if I had taken
the path to the liquidity pool I'm not
necessarily going to end up in the same
state as if i had taken the path to the
state as if I had taken the path to the
other side
and then I'm not necessarily going to
get the same error code regardless
so things get pretty got pretty hairy
and it was all about just like
this change was all about just like
designing or not even designing defining
a set of rules that we could actually
follow
to make it predictable what kind of
error codes you would get
i don't know if we need to get into the
I don't know if we need to get into the
details of like how it actually does
that
because like from any user's perspective
they're just error codes but it was all
about making a specification that we
could actually follow and check that we
did correctly when implementing starcore
we learned a lot while dealing with this
problem though actually that was
in that sense it was really enlightening
to try to understand this and try to
figure out how to write the right stuff
but i don't know if it's very
but I don't know if it's very
enlightening to get into the weeds about
how it works
I'm just curious can you give an example
how is it that a liquidity pool can make
a path payment fail or you're saying
like it would have failed without the
liquidity pool it also fails with the
liquidity pool
but therefore give the same error
message if you didn't have liquidity
pool or just an example would help here
yes so there is an example here but i
i can definitely give you an example
I can definitely give you an example
that might be more pertinent
you could well actually you know what
I'm gonna mess it up if i try and do it
I'm gonna mess it up if I try and do it
off the top of my head let me look at
the example that i wrote here and just
the example that I wrote here and just
walk through that
give me 10 seconds to review it
unfortunately it
unfortunately it doesn't give the
example of the weird thing happening so
you've put me on the spot but I'm
gonna try to produce an example for you
okay here's an example you have no
order book at all
in this case it's a single hop
but you do have a
a liquidity pool the liquidity pool
has some liquidity in it but not enough
to give you a good enough price when you
say no no order so the path payment
meaning is from a to b there's two
assets involved and there's currently no
offer no traditional offers right no
traditional offers exactly
there is a liquidity  it's very small
there is a liquidity it's very small
and so there's a ton of slippage when
you trade against it and as a
consequence you you like you can do
the hop you can do the conversion you
want to do but you don't get a good
price
and so
in the old world
like you know if you only went through
the path payment like if you only went
through the traditional order book you
would have gotten too few offers
but now you go through the liquidity
pool side you actually can do the
conversion so too few offers is not a
factor but then you get to the end and
you don't satisfy the the constru the
price constraints on the path payment
and so the original language said like
well i should have returned to the too
well I should have returned to the too
few offers
but that's obviously not something that
i could even like
I could even like
if in a long multi-hop payment it might
not even be possible for me to figure
out what i should have returned without
out what I should have returned without
having to go and rerun it all in the
absence of liquidity pools which is
obviously super inefficient for no gains
so
yeah okay and so to be totally clear
there's no such thing as a path payment
that would have succeeded except for the
liquidity pool
there's no way the liquidity pool could
make something fail it would otherwise
have succeeded right
i think that is correct yes okay because
I think that is correct yes okay because
you always get better prices yeah with
the liquidity so it's another option so
it's not
okay okay
i do believe that is correct
yeah i think the first time i said it i
yeah I think the first time I said it i
said something that would have implied
that that wasn't true but that's right i
think that's where i was getting
think that's where I was getting
confused
so basically now
you won't get too few offers because
that's doesn't make sense because it's a
liquidity pool not an order not an order
book right you got some other error
it is still possible to get too few
offers actually even in the case
of the liquidity pool
like if the look
this can only i don't remember for which
this can only I don't remember for which
this can only happen for path payment
strict receive
imagine that you have a liquidity
pool that has a hundred dollars in it
and 115 euros in it that's not like
exactly the exchange rate but it's
pretty close so let's pretend
and and then i sent a pass payment
and and then I sent a pass payment
strict receive
where the destination receives
two hundred dollars
and I'm trying to send euros this is
obviously impossible in the liquidity
pool there aren't two hundred dollars to
come out so the trade can't be done if
there was no traditional order book you
still end up getting too few offers
because when we can't do the trade
in the liquidity pool like on a given
step we will use the result from the
order book side
that sounds a little weird but basically
like the logic here is like try to do
the trade on the liquidity pool
if you get a good result good to go
if you get an error just like throw
the error out who cares then go to the
order book
try to do the trade there if you get a
better price and you got the liquidity
pool assuming the liquidity pool was
possible do the order book
if you get a worse price but the
liquidity pool was possible due to the
liquidity pool and if they were both
errors return the error from the
from the order book
yeah this makes sense
it's weird it's not like weird to think
about but it was hard to express all of
this but we're hitting the exact
examples that we walked through when we
were working this out
but it's just like a reasoned decision
about where the errors come from and
what the order is okay exactly
just need to do something
consistent and predictable basically
add too many sponsoring on revoke
yeah i can take this so this is i
yeah I can take this so this is i
mentioned this earlier but
we in a previous line that we just
reviewed we added a
a low reserve error which is like on
revoke if
the account that is going to sponsor the
cranial bounds is
already isn't a sponsorship sandwich
this is essentially adding at the
another error code where it's possible
to get too many sponsoring as well if
that account if this account sponsoring
is
has is already sponsoring too many
entries
so yeah
that's it
sorry what is the sponsorship limit
so we have a counter that says like
how many
entries you are currently sponsoring
and that has a limit i believe it's
and that has a limit I believe it's
in 32 max or you and 32 max
most importantly it's limited by your
lumen balance isn't it
yeah
all right but you can you can
theoretically get to that amount
i see if you have a lot of that yeah
I see if you have a lot of that yeah
yeah the limit if i should be a little
yeah the limit if I should be a little
more accurate the limit is actually
too many sponsoring plus nub sub entries
which is a detail that allows this
allows the revoked to be guarant the
revoke
to work like guaranteed if you're not
in a sponsorship sandwich
but that which is a detail in the cap
but if
obviously we don't
like in this case it's a little
different
which is why we we need to check for
that error code
the reality is exactly what you say
david though like the only limit that we
ever expect anybody to hit is the sub
entry limit all the other limits they
exist purely because like we have to do
something that has to be well defined
but like
the circumstances under which you would
have to be and to hit those limits are
like so unusual you have to have like
like
three billion base reserves or something
exactly one and a half billion lumens
like well like it's possible but like
why would you be in that situation why
would you be why would you be sponsoring
so much stuff like it's just weird so
i can't wait till that happens
and then we interview the person who got
to that state
well there's a you know most like 20
people or something who can do that
right if there's 50 billion lumens
available so
all right the final change removed new
claimable balance id type
yeah so i can i can take this as well so
yeah so I can I can take this as well so
in the original cap invitation
we added a new
claimable balance id type
and also
the balance id is hashed off of a
different
objects essentially or a different
union in a
struct
and
this is actually unnecessary because
we're already like the hash already is
that has a different type in it so
why why were we at the higher level also
include a different kind of bounce id
type when it's not necessary so we just
remove the
the new claimable balance id type
yes because we still have the
new
type and the object that we had the
passion
yeah i think originally we thought that
yeah I think originally we thought that
maybe by having this extra type we could
basically derive the reason on where the
where this
where this came from but
then we realized well actually
you already have to go to the
transaction that created the
claimable balance anyways so
this was actually
kind of useless i mean like
kind of useless I mean like
like for existing playmobil balances you
already have to go through this process
so
there was like
it was a shortcut that was not
actually doing anything useful
well that's all the
changes that happen between acceptance
and now
and i feel like you know i definitely
and I feel like you know I definitely
learned something about some of the
choices that we made and implications
that they have really outside of the
protocol
mainly in terms of what we can be
telling people
but basically it doesn't seem like
there's any work that needs to be done
to revise or
undo any of those changes does that seem
correct
yeah i have
yeah I have
i mean maybe it's just too late for this
I mean maybe it's just too late for this
but like
the one thing that would be nice
like it doesn't say anything about what
happened suppose like 0.3 turns out to
be like the wrong
number or something like it would be
nice to say somewhere to just in terms
of setting expectations like that
future protocols are allowed to like
completely cancel your liquidity pool
shares or refund them to you or
something like give people like
basically like i want to avoid like the
basically like I want to avoid like the
next time we revise this being in a
situation where
like because people are using the
previous amm and we didn't give them
enough warning like we're like reluctant
to make changes so I'm wondering if we
could just add
like
one sentence to the future work
section like it
like that like you can't you can't count
on your shares continuing to trade in
perpetuity if if like we upgrade
the protocol or something
that's a good point
that's a good point because that's also
like the kind of the
the
kind of
we have a similar expectation with the
other book today that
it can basically like disappear any day
so people should not
rely on that in smart contracts or
things like that right
and we did do that with the order book
once and
it was fine and i could imagine needing
it was fine and I could imagine needing
to do the same thing in this context i
think that's a really really good
insight david
so they take so somebody just writes
essentially a sentence that explains
this
too the liquidity of poor shares can you
may get cancelled then you may have to
like claim you claim the claimable
balances and like reissue if
you know if if we upgrade the amm
algorithms or parameters that are in use
got it which again just for anyone
listening would require
valid would require a protocol upgrade
that would require the consent of
validators yes it's not a decision well
that would be a cap actually it's a new
cap too
yeah and a new cab right so there would
be a whole process that would lead to
that it would be out in the open and it
would be this
like development life cycle
so i guess that then there is an
so I guess that then there is an
additive request which makes sense and
someone's going to take that but other
than that we feel that these
these changes
i mean am i okay voting for this but
I mean am I okay voting for this but
authorizing like one sentence to be
inserted before it's you know
finalized like i don't want to drag this
finalized like I don't want to drag this
into another protocol meeting it's like
a very minor thing that doesn't matter
for today so
and if if we didn't do this i would
and if if we didn't do this I would
still be okay with this i just think it
still be okay with this I just think it
would be nice to do
yeah it sounds like everyone agrees
right
I'm gonna go and do it when we get off
the phone probably so or get off the
call get off the phone so old school
thank you john
okay cool is there anything else that
that is pressing that that anyone wants
to bring up if not i think we're done
to bring up if not I think we're done
for today
there were any questions in the chat
before we hang out i don't know
before we hang out I don't know
none have been relayed to me
everything was so congratulations
great we did it let's
everybody this is a big big deal
yeah and so there we go
has reached the end of its development
life cycle and now it is ready
to go out into the world i mean it's
to go out into the world I mean it's
already on the test net in protocol 18
and soon it will be voted on by public
network validators which is
pretty exciting so great work everybody
i'll see you all soon
thanks everyone
thank you thanks
you